---
slug: new-idea
title: New Idea
authors: [bobby_chen]
---

At my job, I have many co-workers for whom English is not their first language.
My company is fully remote, so I work with people on all 5 continents.
For Oscar, his mother tongue is Spanish.
Shuangling's preference is Mandarin Chinese.

And yet, all written communication _across the company_ is written in English.
Meeting notes in Google Docs, threads on Slack, comments on GitHub, all English.
All 9000+ members of the company must document our work for future co-workers using a single company-mandated language.
Because we hire from around the world, this is an astounding handicap on over half of our talent.

Collaboration is frustrating.
Parsing the author's intent from broken English sentences is tiring.

I have a new idea to fix this.

<!-- truncate -->

The scope of this idea is constrained to Git commit messages.
Many design principles can probably be generalized to other collaborative documentation.

Anyways, here goes:

What if there could be a git hook that will ask you a few questions about your changes?

Just answer the following questions with your best description:

```txt title="In your terminal"
$ git commit

Preparing commit message...
Please answer the following questions:

1. What current problem is this change about?

> Product list page takes a long time to load

2. What this change will do

> Add a limit to the query for the product list page

3. What we expect to happen after

> Product list page will load fast, regardless of total products

Generating commit message...
```

```txt title="In your default git editor"
Fix: Speed up product list page loading

The product list page on our website was taking a really long
time to load. This made it frustrating for our customers because
they had to wait a lot before they could see the products.

I made a change to the way our website loads the product list
page. I added a limit to the number of products that are loaded
at once when you visit the page. This means that the page will
load faster, even if we have a lot of products in our database.

Now, when you go to the product list page, it will load quickly,
no matter how many products we have. This will make our website
more enjoyable to use and will keep our customers happy. They
won't have to wait around for the page to load, and they can
start shopping right away!
```

:::note Disclaimer

The commit message above was generated by GPT-3.5

:::

Edit the generated text to your liking.
Hit "Save" and your changes are committed.
To summarize, the git hook generates a draft commit message that explains your intent in English.

The git hook should be configurable.
You can use your own choice of language for your repository, not just English.
The output will be formatted using markdown, so that it can be easy to read for reviewers.

## System design

The inputs available to the git hook are:

1. The contents of the git repository.
2. The files in the working tree.

Using these inputs, the git hook should analyze the diff and code symbols to gain
additional context on the intent of the changes.

The output should be a formatted git commit message:

1. A body, describing the purpose of the change
2. A subject line, summarizing the body, no more than 50 characters

## Further work

I waste too much time just trying to figure out what my co-workers did in the past.
I want to build tools to fix this.
I'm going to start with Git commit messages.
